Korath begin (#8752)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/korath/korath missions.txt

			choice
				`	(Draw where human territory is.)`
					goto draw
				`	(Pretend not to understand what the map is.)`
					goto wait

			label draw
			`	You draw the outline of your own ship on the same side of the core as theirs, but farther out, then draw a line around it marking the extents of human space. The Korath responds by drawing, beyond the southern edge of human space, something that looks like a spider, covering one whole galactic arm. Then, near the top of human space it pushes its finger deep into the ground, and again just north of there, and connects the two holes with a line.`
			choice
				`	(Add some details I know to the map.)`
					goto add
				`	(Wait to see what else they will draw.)`
					goto wait

			label add
			# MZ wrote the parts about spiders, long before the Coalition was added to the game, the spiders are Archons. (so saith ravenshining)

> 			`	Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a broken ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw more of the spiders, again spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over them so the lines are barely visible.`

Reviewer: > There is only one broken ring, the others which aren't complete are simply incomplete.
> Please rephrase this.

It's not unreasonable to say "broken ring" to describe an incomplete circle. This line goes on to say "under construction" already.

Though, "broken circle" may sound/read better since "ring" won't be repeated a few words later.

> 			`	Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a broken ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw more of the spiders, again spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over them so the lines are barely visible.`

Reviewer 2: Broken circle would be better, I just want to avoid having "broken ring" used as it currently means only one very specific thing when talking about Quarg ringworlds, an event fairly significant to the Quarg as a whole.

> 			`	Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a broken ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw more of the spiders, again spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over them so the lines are barely visible.`

Author: I changed it to "partial ring" since "ring" is consistent with the rest of the mission (Quarg ringworld), and "partial" does not imply someone broke it. How is that?

		has "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Suddenly, you have a feeling like a thousand piece jigsaw puzzle just came together before your eyes. When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet. She had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration.`
			`	Most curious of all is the rainbow feather on Iris's necklace, which was the exact shape of feathers on the Korath of Far'en Lei, but far more colorful.`
			`	There's definitely something bigger going on, and it's time to track down Iris and get some answers. You last saw her on <planet>.`
				accept

mission "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather"
	landing
	invisible
	source "La'ab Bamen"
	to offer
		has "Korath [F04]: Fishy Reasoning: offered"
	on offer
		fail
		conversation
			`You find Iris in one of the narrow access tunnels of La'ab Bamen, observing the fish behind the glass.`

> 			`	"I was wondering when you'd seek me out," she says, with a worried look. "You gave those two patrols quite a scare on Far'en Lei. They had never seen a human before, and they found one armed at their jail's lock."`

Reviewer 3: We should probably vary this line based on the outcome of that encounter.  It needn't be a pass/fail thing, but accepting the prior mission should be an extra opportunity to gain favour, and Iris can clarify for you how you did on that.

Author: I would need you to suggest changes since I only have a 37% understanding of the meanings of the encounter.

Author: @roadrunner56 @ravenshining - Iris now has three responses, depending on Captain Last's actions in the first contact. Also, I added two variables:

- `First Contact: Korath Exiles: pointed gun on Far'en Lai` = took out your gun
- `First Contact: Korath Exiles: agreed to bring food` = agreed to bring food (though the player may not realize that)

Her responses:

- Took out a gun = The original message.
- Offered food = Suggests doing some jobs at La'ab Bamen.
- Neither = Shouldn't have gone there. Please don't go back.

Regardless of your actions, she doesn't want you to go back to Far'en Lai.

				goto check

			label compassion
			`	"Now that I have satisfied your curiosity, I have a request for you."`
			choice
				`	"Of course. What is it?"`
				`	"I'll hear it."`
			`	"I sense you have a part to play on the galactic stage, which I should not forbid. The rest of the galaxy knows our protectors as monsters; mindless destroyers to be hunted for thrill or profit. All I ask is that you act with compassion and understanding."`
			choice
				`	"You've made a convincing case. I'll help them find their place in the galaxy."`
				`	"Compassion for the Korath? That's asking a lot, but I'll try."`
				`	"We will have to agree to disagree, but I will not forget your words."`
					goto nosee
			`	She closes her eyes and sighs happily. "Thank you. We do not share this information lightly, and I'm glad we judged well." Opening her eyes and smiling, she does a slight bow and departs.`

> 				decline

Reviewer 3: Accept or +rep or set a flag or something to keep track of the response for future missions.  Same for the Far'en Lai mission.
```suggestion
				accept
```

Author: It turns out that missions which have to automatically fail cannot have an "accept" in their dialog, or things don't work as intended. Instead, I added two variables:

- `Korath happiness with first contact` = 1 or 2
- `willingness to agree to Iris's request to help Korath` = 1, 2, or 3

			`	"Human," you say, almost instinctively.`
			`	Akafavah says, "Oy! Humanika!" It's not clear what emotion they're feeling, but it's a strong one.`
			`	Takra asks you, "Were foam?"`
			`	They see your confusion and seem to give up on communicating in your language. It's time for a different approach.`
				goto map

			label silence
			`	The left gestures at itself and says, "Akafavah." The right does a similar gesture and says, "Takra." You respond almost instinctively with "<first> <last>."`
			`	Pleased with this success, Akafavah continues, "Korath," gesturing at the two pilots.`
			`	"I'm a human," you say, "from Earth."`
			`	Akafavah says suddenly, "Oi! Humanika!" It's unclear what emotion the Korath is expressing, but it is a strong one.`
			`	They see your confusion and seem to give up on communicating with words. It's time for a different approach.`
				goto map

			label attack
			`	You reach for your gun. They move faster than you would have expected possible. One of strikes a pose with their arms and shouts, "Nag! Nag! Koreshi far'en lai!" Simultaneously, the other dives at you, grabbing the gun out of your hands before you have a chance to fire it.`

> 			`	Then, instead of attacking you, the one who took your gun begins waving it your face and talking very quickly, as if scolding you. It points to the sky with a sweeping gesture, then mimics drawing the gun as you just did. Then it points to the ground, puts the gun on the ground, and says, "Far'en lai ko forei lak'far." Then it picks up the gun and repeats both gestures: all the sky, gun drawn. Earth, gun on ground. Then it tosses the gun down at your feet and waits, expectantly.`

Author: I want @ravenshining's opinion on changing this one.

> 			`	Then, instead of attacking you, the one who took your gun begins waving it your face and talking very quickly, as if scolding you. It points to the sky with a sweeping gesture, then mimics drawing the gun as you just did. Then it points to the ground, puts the gun on the ground, and says, "Far'en lai ko forei lak'far." Then it picks up the gun and repeats both gestures: all the sky, gun drawn. Earth, gun on ground. Then it tosses the gun down at your feet and waits, expectantly.`

Author: I think "down" makes the most sense.

Then it picks up the gun and repeats both gestures: all the sky, gun drawn. **Down,** gun on ground. Then it tosses the gun **near your feet** and waits, expectantly.

> 			`	Then, instead of attacking you, the one who took your gun begins waving it your face and talking very quickly, as if scolding you. It points to the sky with a sweeping gesture, then mimics drawing the gun as you just did. Then it points to the ground, puts the gun on the ground, and says, "Far'en lai ko forei lak'far." Then it picks up the gun and repeats both gestures: all the sky, gun drawn. Earth, gun on ground. Then it tosses the gun down at your feet and waits, expectantly.`

Author: This is a minor gripe, and I think everyone will be okay with it, so I'll resolve this conversation to avoid cluttering the gigantic comment chain. Please comment again if there are problems with the new text.

			choice
				`	(Try to assure them you do not mean to fight them.)`
					goto assurance
				`	(Try to communicate that they should leave humanity alone.)`
					goto alone

			label assurance
			`	"We do not want to fight you," you say, and you redraw the human and Korath ships, on the map, so they are facing away from each other.`
			`	"Kai," says one of the Korath, looking at the other, "mik'mal ka puk?"`
			`	"Lajalness?" the other says back, and takes a moment to look at your ship.`
			`	Returning to the sand, they make another copy of your respective ships, this time, all facing in the same direction. Making a gesture, they alter the drawing you made, so that the ships appear double-ended. They point to each drawing, and then to you.`
			choice
				`	(Point to the three ships flying together in the same direction.)`
					goto together
				`	(Point to the double-ended ships facing off against each other.)`
					goto fight
				`	(Change the drawing to emphasize the ships moving apart again.)`
					goto alone

			label together
			`	They stare at you for another few awkward seconds.`

> 			`	Then, in front of your three ships, they slowly and carefully draw a large fire, larger than the three of your ships put together. Beside your ships, facing away, they draw a pointed circle on one side, and a spider on the other; after a brief pause, they make the circle and spider double-ended. Again, they point to the drawing of your double-ended ships, and then to the now ominous-looking collection of ships and fire, and point to you.`

Author: It's a "pointed circle," so it does have a direction. Again, I will ping @ravenshining for comment.

> 			`	Then, in front of your three ships, they slowly and carefully draw a large fire, larger than the three of your ships put together. Beside your ships, facing away, they draw a pointed circle on one side, and a spider on the other; after a brief pause, they make the circle and spider double-ended. Again, they point to the drawing of your double-ended ships, and then to the now ominous-looking collection of ships and fire, and point to you.`

Author: If I understand correctly, this would be the best change:

Beside your ships, facing away, they draw a pointed circle on one side, and a spider on the other. **After a brief pause, they give the spider heads on both sides of its body, and give the circle two points.** Again, they point to the drawing of your double-ended ships, and then to the now ominous-looking collection of ships and fire, and point to you.

> 			`	Then, in front of your three ships, they slowly and carefully draw a large fire, larger than the three of your ships put together. Beside your ships, facing away, they draw a pointed circle on one side, and a spider on the other; after a brief pause, they make the circle and spider double-ended. Again, they point to the drawing of your double-ended ships, and then to the now ominous-looking collection of ships and fire, and point to you.`

Author: A raven whispered to me, and I have these changes:

> Then, in front of your three ships, they slowly and carefully draw a large fire, larger than the three of your ships put together. **Beside your ships, they draw a teardrop shape on one side, facing away. On the other side, they draw a spider facing in the opposite direction. After a brief pause, they give the spider heads on both sides of its body, and give the teardrop a second tail.** Again, they point to the drawing of your double-ended ships, and then to the now ominous-looking collection of ships and fire, and point to you

The "pointed circle" was a teardrop, and the one with two points is a teardrop with two tails.

			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
			`	Her face turns sour and she says, "Unfortunately, I can't finish my current delivery. My mother is quite sick, and I want to get to Freedom before..." she trails off. "Well, a client really needs this delivery, and I have to find someone to do it."`
				goto questions
			label mission
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
			`	"It's the sort of delivery where you don't ask what sort of delivery it is. Take <tons> of fish to <planet>, and fly back here with <tons> of supplies. It's just two systems away, and the payment is 140,000 credits. Couldn't be easier."`
				goto questions
			label yup
			action
				log "Agreed to help a woman named Jenny Jetmaster who couldn't make a delivery. Apparently the delivery is illegal, though it's unlikely to be detected since it's in a region of space not patrolled by any law-abiding governments."
			`	"Really? Okay, hold on..." looking down, she fidgets with a datapad, perhaps transferring permission for the cargo mission. "Yeah, okay." She looks back up at last. "Transfer is approved." Her crewman starts offloading the fish, preparing to transfer it to your ship.`

> 			`	"If the authorities won't let you land, read them the serial number from the cargo container, and they'll open a bay for you. Oh, also, this is an illegal mission, so don't get caught, or it'll cost you. Well, it's unlikely anyone out here will care about laws, but I do believe in full disclosure."`

Author: I gave the player a second chance to accept/decline after learning the mission is illegal. How is this?

![new-fishy-options](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/assets/116329264/7ac096af-b8ec-4476-a431-3ba5b2d51ebe)

			choice
				`	(Go out in a blaze of glory.)`
					goto glory
				`	"I'm sorry, I panicked."`
					goto sorry
				`	"Yes, let's talk instead."`
					goto talk

			# Death scene, for players who don't bother reading the choices.
			label glory
			`	As your hand starts to move, so does Iris's, giving the order to fire. All guns glow red, and your pain is excruciating for a brief moment as plasma eats its way through flesh and bone.`
				die

			label sorry
			`	You move your hand away from the gun, and she reassures you. "We all make mistakes, Captain <last>. Be glad this wasn't a fatal one. Now tell me what really happened."`
				goto really
			label talk
			`	"A wiser decision than your last one, Captain <last>. Rash actions can lead to a quick end of your mercenary career. Please be careful in the future. Now tell me what really happened."`
				goto really
			label taunt
			`	Iris laughs at your joke as the men around her glare at you. "You don't look halfway clever enough to scam Jenny. What really happened?"`
			label really
			choice
				`	(Pull out your gun.)`
					goto gun
					to display

> 						not "pulled gun on Iris"

Author: No. You only "pull out your gun" once. There is no way to loop between them.

> 						not "pulled gun on Iris"

Author: I tried several routes through the dialog and I cannot pull out my gun twice no matter how hard I try.

			`	"That, Captain, is the very core of their being. They never developed diplomacy because they didn't need it: a few feathers or the skin of the dead will end a conflict. That is, unless their terrible weapons annihilate the corpses, or if the enemies aren't Korath at all. We do what we can to mediate their troubles with humans, but we aren't always around."`
				goto check

			label freedom
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: freedom"
			`	"There are few life-supporting planets in the systems where the Korath are exiled. One is the violent planet you visited: Rabasot Pa'ah. The Korath discovered New Tortuga has a similar, though less violent, environment and evolved a fish-like species that would be an excellent food source.`

> 			`	"They could not grow the creatures on Rabasot Pa'ah, or artificially, since the larval form requires very specific conditions. The juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah, growing far larger than on New Tortuga. The conditions of their exile prevented the Korath from fishing on New Tortuga themselves, so they had to make a deal with humans.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"They could not grow the creatures either artificially or on Rabasot Pa'ah, since the larval form requires very specific conditions. The juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah, growing far larger than on New Tortuga. The conditions of their exile prevented the Korath from fishing on New Tortuga themselves, so they had to make a deal with humans.`
```

			# Iris's explanation is extremely biased because her primary source
			# is the Korath exiles. She is presenting a human interpretation of
			# the Exiles' feelings about their own fate.
			`	"The imperialist Drak race sent living weapons, the Archons, to conquer the Korath under the guise of protection. The Archons' antimatter weapons and seeming invincibility was too much, until the Korath gathered a larger fleet. When they managed to injure one Archon, the others revealed frightening powers. They tore open rifts in reality, simply swallowing up Korath ships. Hidden super-weapons in planetoids, intended as mines, were harmless, as the Archons shattered the planetoids and atomized the weapons. In every battle, all Korath military ships were destroyed, but the civilians were somehow unscathed.`
			`	"The Korath saw certain defeat, and in surrender the Drak offered two options. The Korath may give up their religions and live as pets of their former friends, the Quarg. Or, they could keep their religions and live in starving exile near us.`

> 			`	"The Drak left the exiles with a warning: destroy Far'en Lei, and we will kill you all. You may never leave exile until you heal that planet and live there peacefully. As a precaution, and almost as a religion, they forbid weapons on that planet. A condition YOU violated." She looks heated for a moment before continuing.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"The Drak left the exiles with a warning: destroy Far'en Lei, and we will kill you all. You may never leave exile until you heal that planet and live there peacefully. As a precaution, and almost as a religion, they forbid weapons on that planet. A condition you violated." She looks heated for a moment before continuing.`
```

Author: She is raising her voice when speaking that word. Hence, it is capitalized. This is done elsewhere in Endless Sky, in the rare places where it is appropriate.

Author: I added a comment explaining this, and why it was done.

			`	"As to their guardianship over us, it violates the letter of the law, but not the intent. The Korath believe the Drak will look favorably upon them for protecting the weak. Along with defending us against major attacks, they have provided extensive assistance. Their aid - at our insistence - has been purely civilian: Anything we receive, the Syndicate may somehow obtain, and I shudder to think of what they may do with the wrong knowledge."`
				goto check

			label compassion
			`	"Now that I have satisfied your curiosity, I have a request for you."`
			choice
				`	"Of course. What is it?"`
				`	"I'll hear it."`
			`	"I sense you have a part to play on the galactic stage, which I should not forbid. The rest of the galaxy knows our protectors as monsters; mindless destroyers to be hunted for thrill or profit. All I ask is that you act with compassion and understanding."`
			choice

> 				`	"You've made a convincing case. I'll help them find their place in the galaxy."`

Reviewer 4: How is the player, at this point, able to make the claim that they can help an entire species find their place? This seems a bit premature.

Author: It is the kind of preposterous promise Iris is looking for. Hence, you have the option to give it, even if it doesn't make much sense.

Or, to put it another way: Iris has faith that [insert higher power here] will grant you the ability to manipulate the fate of the Korath, and expects you to have the same faith. This is well within the character of religious individuals I know.

Author: This part has been rewritten twice, so I'll resolve this conversation. If you see problems with the new text, please comment again.

						not "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: feather"
				`	"Why did you call Far'en Lei 'their jail's lock'?"`
					goto exile
					to display
						has "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: know"
						not "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: exile"
				`	"What is the nature of this fish trade?"`
					goto freedom
					to display
						has "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: know"
						not "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: freedom"

			label harm
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: know"
			`	"The Korath told me what you did: you brought a weapon to Far'en Lei, Captain." She looks deeply concerned. "That, alone, is terrible harm, and you should never do it again. They let you go because it is a planet of peace."`
				goto check

			label know
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: know"
			`	"We are allies of the Korath. Naturally, if a human somehow obtains a jump drive and wanders into Korath space, they ask us about it. Landing on Far'en Lei with a weapon does terrible harm. They let you go because it is a planet of peace."`
				goto check

			label feather
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: feather"

> 			`	She removes her necklace and cups the rainbow feather tenderly in her hands. "This was a gift from a Korath woman who is my... close friend. Korath keep memories in their skin and pass knowledge by eating another's memories. The stronger the memory, the more colorful the feathers. This feather has the memories and emotions that she identifies with me.`

Reviewer 5: No criticism here, liz-bians are a perfect addition

Author: It is intentionally vague, to let the reader fill in the details.

Lizards are gorgeous, though. I'd date one, if it was sentient.

	on visit
		dialog "You've arrived at <planet> but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."

event "know about Korath fish jobs"

mission "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition"
	landing
	name "A fishy proposition"
	description "Transport <cargo> to <planet> by <date> for <payment>. Avoid getting scanned or landing on high-security planets, or you may be fined."
	cargo "planetary supplies" 15
	illegal 50000
	"apparent payment" 140000
	deadline 4
	clearance "The authorities do not respond, but a concealed hangar bay door opens. The meaning is clear: land here."
	source "La'ab Bamen"
	destination "New Tortuga"
	to offer
		has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You approach the asteroid and a crater suddenly opens up, revealing a docking bay below. It's large enough to fit entire human space stations, but there are only a few ordinary ships parked below. When you exit your ship, several threatening-looking men in odd uniforms stare you down. They're armed with bright orange rifles whose scorching heat warps the air around them.`

> 			`	A woman in a white dress steps forward, whose face radiates kindness, in sharp contrast to her tactical gear. Atop her silky dress, you see two revolvers and a sizable supply of ammo. There's a knife on each leg, just above her knee-high combat boots, and you think there's another knife behind her neck. A rainbow lock contrasts her otherwise light blond hair, and matches the rainbow feather on a necklace draped around her neck.`

Author: I need to portray that information, in that paragraph, where Iris is first introduced. Unfortunately, I am no Shakespeare, so this is the best I can come up with for now..

> 			`	A woman in a white dress steps forward, whose face radiates kindness, in sharp contrast to her tactical gear. Atop her silky dress, you see two revolvers and a sizable supply of ammo. There's a knife on each leg, just above her knee-high combat boots, and you think there's another knife behind her neck. A rainbow lock contrasts her otherwise light blond hair, and matches the rainbow feather on a necklace draped around her neck.`

Author: This bit of text has been modified several times now. Do people like the latest version?

> You approach the asteroid and a crater suddenly opens up, revealing a docking bay. Entire human space stations could fit in here, but there are only a few ordinary ships parked. When you exit the <ship>, several dire men in uniformed body armor greet you. Each holds a bright orange rifle whose scorching heat warps the air around them. They all stare intensely at you as another figure steps forward.
>      It is a woman who captures your attention, with a warm and open smile on her face. Strapped over the top of her silky white dress you see two revolvers and a sizable supply of ammo. Beyond that there is a knife on each leg, just above her knee-high combat boots, and you think there's another one between her shoulder-blades. A rainbow lock contrasts her otherwise light blond hair, and matches the rainbow feather on a necklace draped around her neck.

			`	The strangest feature is what appears to be slow-moving islands. As one comes closer, its form is more clear: an unholy marriage between a blue whale and a giant squid. On the far end of the mesa, you spy a gravity lift system that looks suitable for lifting such a beast out of the water.`
				decline

mission "Korath [F04]: Fishy Reasoning"
	landing
	name "Seek answers from Iris"
	description "Visit Iris at <planet> and ask her about Korath, fish transfers, an ocean planet, and her rainbow feather."
	clearance "You explain the purpose of your visit, and the authorities inform you that Iris will expect you."
	source
		not planet "La'ab Bamen"
	destination "La'ab Bamen"
	to offer
		has "First Contact: Korath Exiles: offered"

		# Require a successful landing on Rabasot Pa'ah, since that gives you the whale picture.
		has "landed on Rabasot Pa'ah"

		# You have to meet Iris and know she has knowledge of Korath:
		has "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Suddenly, you have a feeling like a thousand piece jigsaw puzzle just came together before your eyes. When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet. She had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration.`

Author: I rewrote this so that a few logs catch Captain Last's eye while reviewing damage and transit logs. The logs are the same ones as before, and the mission has the same result. They're less pushy about going to the destination.

How does it look?

> 			`Suddenly, you have a feeling like a thousand piece jigsaw puzzle just came together before your eyes. When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet. She had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration.`

Author: You may need to reload the page. I just reloaded and the changes are definitely there.

> `While skimming damage and transit logs from your recent trips, a few old log entries catch your eye.`
> `    When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. You now know they're Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet.`
> `    Iris had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration. Most curious of all is the rainbow feather on her necklace. It was the exact shape of feathers on the Korath of Far'en Lei, but far more colorful.`
> `    You last saw Iris on <planet>. Perhaps it is time to seek answers.`

> 			`Suddenly, you have a feeling like a thousand piece jigsaw puzzle just came together before your eyes. When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet. She had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration.`

Author: I think there should be a timed event with a random period. It'll have the effect you describe, but it'll also ensure a reasonable delay.

> 			`Suddenly, you have a feeling like a thousand piece jigsaw puzzle just came together before your eyes. When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet. She had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration.`

Author: The deed is done. You have to land anywhere and then there is a delay of five to fourteen days. After that, you get the message on landing. That ensures you won't get the message immediately if you take two weeks to land.

				goto check

			label exile
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: exile"
			`	"Before their exile, the Korath had a vast and thriving civilization that spanned many systems. Unfortunately, due to their very nature, they could not resolve differences easily. This led to a terrible war that left their civilization weakened.`
			# Iris's explanation is extremely biased because her primary source
			# is the Korath exiles. She is presenting a human interpretation of
			# the Exiles' feelings about their own fate.
			`	"The imperialist Drak race sent living weapons, the Archons, to conquer the Korath under the guise of protection. The Archons' antimatter weapons and seeming invincibility was too much, until the Korath gathered a larger fleet. When they managed to injure one Archon, the others revealed frightening powers. They tore open rifts in reality, simply swallowing up Korath ships. Hidden super-weapons in planetoids, intended as mines, were harmless, as the Archons shattered the planetoids and atomized the weapons. In every battle, all Korath military ships were destroyed, but the civilians were somehow unscathed.`

> 			`	"The Korath saw certain defeat, and in surrender the Drak offered two options. The Korath may give up their religions and live as pets of their former friends, the Quarg. Or, they could keep their religions and live in starving exile near us.`

Author: Perfect! I have made that change.

			# The "YOU" in all caps is to indicate Iris is briefly raising her voice. Iris momentarily departs from the calm and kind persona she usually displays because she's infuriated beyond reason. This unusual departure from the typical Endless Sky writing rules is to emphasize the importance of what you did wrong.
			`	"The Drak left the exiles with a warning: destroy Far'en Lei, and we will kill you all. You may never leave exile until you heal that planet and live there peacefully. As a precaution, and almost as a religion, they forbid weapons on that planet. A condition YOU violated." She looks heated for a moment before continuing.`

> 			`	"As to their guardianship over us, it violates the letter of the law, but not the intent. The Korath believe the Drak will look favorably upon them for protecting the weak. Along with defending us against major attacks, they have provided extensive assistance. Their aid - at our insistence - has been purely civilian: Anything we receive, the Syndicate may somehow obtain, and I shudder to think of what they may do with the wrong knowledge."`

Author: The Korath initially fight the Archons. The reality of their situation shifted after a single battle, and the Korath went from brave warriors to conquered exiles. Gaining favor with the Drak is the only way to end their exile, and this New Tortuga deal brings them closer to that goal.

> 			`	"As to their guardianship over us, it violates the letter of the law, but not the intent. The Korath believe the Drak will look favorably upon them for protecting the weak. Along with defending us against major attacks, they have provided extensive assistance. Their aid - at our insistence - has been purely civilian: Anything we receive, the Syndicate may somehow obtain, and I shudder to think of what they may do with the wrong knowledge."`

Author: The wording of that sentence is terrible, though. I need to improve it.

> 			`	"As to their guardianship over us, it violates the letter of the law, but not the intent. The Korath believe the Drak will look favorably upon them for protecting the weak. Along with defending us against major attacks, they have provided extensive assistance. Their aid - at our insistence - has been purely civilian: Anything we receive, the Syndicate may somehow obtain, and I shudder to think of what they may do with the wrong knowledge."`

Author: How does this look? The changed part is in bold:

> As to their guardianship over us, it violates the letter of the law, but not the intent. **The Korath hope this protection of the innocent will temper the Drak's rage.** Along with defending us against major attacks,

				goto check

			label compassion
			`	"Now that I have satisfied your curiosity, I have a request for you."`
			choice
				`	"Of course. What is it?"`
				`	"I'll hear it."`

> 			`	"I sense you have a part to play on the galactic stage, which I should not forbid. The rest of the galaxy knows our protectors as monsters; mindless destroyers to be hunted for thrill or profit. All I ask is that you act with compassion and understanding."`

Author: How do these revisions look? I made Iris's suggestion seem more dubious, and Captain Last's first response is "I'm not a galactic superpower." The changes are in bold:

> Iris: "**In my meditations, I see your future part on the galactic stage, which I should not forbid.** The rest of the galaxy knows our protectors as monsters; mindless destroyers to be hunted for thrill or profit. All I ask is that you act with compassion and understanding."
> Choices:
>   **"I'm just an ordinary pilot, not a galactic superpower. You need to seek stronger allies, but I'll show what compassion I can."**
>   "You've made a convincing case. I'll help them find their place in the galaxy."
>   "We will have to agree to disagree, but I will not forget your words."

			# Names:
			# Pilot to the left: Akafavah, meaning "steel eyes"
			# Pilot to the right: Tak Ratabomlek, or Takra for short, means "unforgotten"

			# I don't know what "Oi" means.
			choice
				`	"I am <first> <last>."`
					goto name
				`	"Oi, oi!"`
					goto silence
				`	"I come in peace. Take me to your leader."`
					goto peaceleader
				`	(Remain silent and observe.)`
					goto silence
				`	(Attack them.)`
					goto attack

			label name
			`	"Takra," it says, pointing to itself. Then it points to the other and says, "Akafavah."`
			`	"Korath," it says, gesturing to the two of them. Then it looks at you expectantly.`
				goto humanika

			# With a longer starting sentence, they suspect you're speaking human standard
			# (even if you may not be human) so they try to use the same language in response.
			label peaceleader
			`	Both of them seem confused, like they half-understand parts of what you said, but can't put the pieces together.`

> 			`	"Peeese? Takra," it says, pointing to itself. Then it points to the other and says, "Akafavah." You respond almost instinctively with "<first> <last>."`

Author: That is alternative dialog so the player never sees both. (You will see if you carefully follow the choices, labels, and gotos.) In all cases, blurting the name is done "almost instinctively."

> 			`	"Peeese? Takra," it says, pointing to itself. Then it points to the other and says, "Akafavah." You respond almost instinctively with "<first> <last>."`

Author: I changed to this:

> "Human," you say.

It no longer describes your instincts. How is that?

> 			`	"Peeese? Takra," it says, pointing to itself. Then it points to the other and says, "Akafavah." You respond almost instinctively with "<first> <last>."`

Author: I applied your change manually, since I had to undo a prior change first.

			`	"Human," you say, almost instinctively.`
			`	Akafavah says, "Oy! Humanika!" It's not clear what emotion they're feeling, but it's a strong one.`
			`	Takra asks you, "Were foam?"`
			`	They see your confusion and seem to give up on communicating in your language. It's time for a different approach.`
				goto map

			label silence
			`	The left gestures at itself and says, "Akafavah." The right does a similar gesture and says, "Takra." You respond almost instinctively with "<first> <last>."`
			`	Pleased with this success, Akafavah continues. "Korath," it says, gesturing at the two pilots.`
			`	"I'm a human," you say, "from Earth."`
			`	Akafavah says suddenly, "Oi! Humanika!" It's unclear what emotion the Korath is expressing, but it is a strong one.`
			`	They see your confusion and seem to give up on communicating with words. It's time for a different approach.`
				goto map

			label attack
			`	You reach for your gun. They move faster than you would have expected possible. One of strikes a pose with their arms and shouts, "Nag! Nag! Koreshi far'en lai!" Simultaneously, the other dives at you, grabbing the gun out of your hands before you have a chance to fire it.`

> 			`	Then, instead of attacking you, the one who took your gun begins waving it your face and talking very quickly, as if scolding you. It points to the sky with a sweeping gesture, then mimics drawing the gun as you just did. Then it points to the ground, puts the gun on the ground, and says, "Far'en lai ko forei lak'far." Then it picks up the gun and repeats both gestures: all the sky, gun drawn. Down, gun on ground. Then it tosses the gun near your feet and waits, expectantly.`

Author: No, actually, I think your way is less confusing.

	destination "La'ab Bamen"
	on offer
		event "know about Korath fish jobs"
		conversation
			`Flying through the atmosphere of New Tortuga, you pass over a typhoon, overfly a tsunami, and take a short detour around a supercell thunderstorm. After a half hour of delicate flying, you approach doors more than a hundred meters tall. As they open, you can see they're ten meters thick, made of a material you don't recall seeing on human planets. Two layers of shields shut down in anticipation of your entry, each strong enough to stop a Navy Carrier. To the left and right, there are turrets with heat signatures higher than a Breeder Reactor. Whoever built this place values their safety... and has the funds and technology to secure it.`
			`	Spaceport authorities direct you to bay 23X-5, which contains an odd ship you see on your way in. It appears to be an old-fashioned jet aircraft, whose four jet engines have been replaced with small ion engines. From the gold pipes on the tail, it appears to have a hyperdrive built into the hull. Several packages are being unloaded from the plane. A woman is waving her arms, perhaps with anger, as she walks from the cockpit into the airport.`

> 			`	The ship is parked next to yours and the woman is about to walk past you. She looks quite distraught, and perchance looks your way. Maybe a distraction will cheer her up?`

Author: It is unclear whether she's looking your way; her eyes were pointing in that general direction while she was flailing in anger. "Perchance," has the connotations I wanted.

			`	"Jenny Jetmaster," she says, with a choreographed bow. "My family used to do air shows all across human space, until my uncle got on the bad side of the Syndicate. We flew all the way from Bourne to Tinker to pick him up and smuggled him out to New Tortuga where the Syndicate cannot reach us. Now I smuggle cargo through hyperspace in a 20th century aircraft!"`
			branch questions
				has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
			label down
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
			`	Her face turns sour and she says, "Unfortunately, I can't finish my current delivery. My mother is quite sick, and I want to get to Freedom before..." she trails off. "Well, a client really needs this delivery, and I have to find someone to do it."`
				goto questions
			label mission
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"

> 			`	"It's the sort of delivery where you don't ask what sort of delivery it is. Take <tons> of fish to <planet>, and fly back here with <tons> of supplies. It's just two systems away, and the payment is 140,000 credits. Couldn't be easier."`

Author: I'm leaving the player in the dark on the politics so that they'll speculate. They are being given a fish delivery that is illegal, even though there's no obvious reason why it is illegal. Clearly, more is going on than they can see. Perhaps it is due to the association with these strange ships, or a jealous Syndicate, or trading endangered species, or whatever else the player may dream up.

Your "this doesn't quite make sense" feeling is what I want the player to feel.

> 			`	"It's the sort of delivery where you don't ask what sort of delivery it is. Take <tons> of fish to <planet>, and fly back here with <tons> of supplies. It's just two systems away, and the payment is 140,000 credits. Couldn't be easier."`

Author: I rewrote the last part of the mission. How does it look now?

> 			`	"It's the sort of delivery where you don't ask what sort of delivery it is. Take <tons> of fish to <planet>, and fly back here with <tons> of supplies. It's just two systems away, and the payment is 140,000 credits. Couldn't be easier."`

Reviewer 6: I like it! Especially the little detail about the knockoff gasket, it makes it feel more real.

				goto questions
			label yup
			action
				log "Agreed to help a woman named Jenny Jetmaster who couldn't make a delivery. Apparently the delivery is illegal, though it's unlikely to be detected since it's in a region of space not patrolled by any law-abiding governments."
			`	"Really? Okay, hold on..." looking down, she fidgets with a datapad, perhaps transferring permission for the cargo mission. "Yeah, okay." She looks back up at last. "Transfer is approved." Her crewman starts offloading the fish, preparing to transfer it to your ship.`

> 			`	"If the authorities won't let you land, read them the serial number from the cargo container, and they'll open a bay for you. Oh, also, this is an illegal mission, so don't get caught, or it'll cost you. The cargo is totally legal, but the delivery is part of an illegal trade arrangement. Well, it's unlikely anyone out here will care about laws, but I do believe in full disclosure."`

Author: Reading it makes little sense, really. Scanning a code would make more sense; that could be gigabytes.

			`As you descend through the magnetosphere, your computer warns you of a build-up of unusual charged particles, muons, which is a bit odd. From your training on hyperspace exit and entrance, you recall that the mean lifetime of a muon is measured in microseconds. Something here must be actively generating them.`
			`	You travel deeper into the atmosphere, approaching what appears to be an inactive volcanic island chain. As usual, your ship's descent causes air currents, but the strange atmosphere turns those currents into a powerful storm. The muons mix with this event, creating catastrophic explosions of electrical discharge.`
			`	Recalling what you've read about extreme atmospheric landings, you reconfigure your shields to act as a plow, pushing through the storm. At first, it isn't enough, so you pull upward, hoping the lower atmospheric density will let you escape. Once you're free, you realize you've already reached the exosphere.`

> 			`	A quick analysis by your ship's computer tells you the shield plow technique should get you all the way down to the surface, if you avoid eddies in the magnetosphere. It seems those eddies interact with the nova in an odd manner that produces vast amounts of muons, which ride your ship through the atmosphere.`

Reviewer 6: I feel like 'ride' should be changed, unless it's just a meaning of the word which I haven't seen before. What does it mean for the muons to 'ride' the ship through the atmosphere? I imaging the intent is that the muons are essentially creating lightning storms, and the combination of lightning and extreme turbulence is the danger? So how about;
`...vast amounts of muons, which create an intense storm centered on your ship.`

Author: I tweaked the explanation to be more consistent. How is it now?

			`	"Think about that a moment. Years of memories flow in as if they were yesterday. Powerful emotions overwhelm you, and you don't understand why, because they aren't your own. You love someone who doesn't love you back because they never met you. Knowledge you couldn't comprehend before is intuitive, but it came at a high price. You'd lose all sense of time and self - unimaginable psychological pain to us is simply a fact of life to a Korath.`
			`	"That, Captain, is the very core of their being. They never developed diplomacy because they didn't need it: a few feathers or the skin of the dead will end a conflict. That is, unless their terrible weapons annihilate the corpses, or if the enemies aren't Korath at all. We do what we can to mediate their troubles with humans, but we aren't always around."`
				goto check

			label freedom
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: freedom"

> 			`	"There are few life-supporting planets in the systems where the Korath are exiled. One is the violent planet you visited: Rabasot Pa'ah. The Korath discovered New Tortuga has a similar, though less violent, environment and evolved a fish-like species that would be an excellent food source.`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
			`	"There are few life-supporting planets in the systems where the Korath are exiled. One is the violent planet you visited: Rabasot Pa'ah. The Korath discovered New Tortuga has a similar, though less violent, environment and developed a fish-like species that would be an excellent food source.`
```
Presumably they used genetic modification, selective breeding, or just designed an organism from scratch? Rather than getting it to actually evolve, I mean.

Author: The species formed naturally, over millions of years of evolution on New Tortuga. It is so exotic and specific that even the Korath couldn't reproduce it.

Reviewer 6: Ah, I get it. I was reading it as the korath who evolved it. 

How about;

`The Korath discovered New Tortuga has a similar, though less violent, environment which evolved a fish-like species that would be an excellent food source.`

I think this makes it clearer that it’s the environment of New Tortuga which caused the fish to evolve, rather than the Korath.

Author: I reworked the paragraph and gave the fish species a name. How does it look now?

Reviewer 6: Looks good to me!

event "know about Korath fish jobs"

mission "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition"
	landing
	name "A fishy proposition"
	description "Transport <cargo> to <planet> by <date> for <payment>. Avoid getting scanned or landing on high-security planets, or you may be fined."
	cargo "planetary supplies" 15
	# See note above in "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal" for why this is illegal.
	illegal 50000
	"apparent payment" 140000
	deadline 4
	clearance "The authorities do not respond, but a concealed hangar bay door opens. The meaning is clear: land here."
	source "La'ab Bamen"
	destination "New Tortuga"
	to offer
		has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: done"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You approach the asteroid and a crater suddenly opens up, revealing a docking bay. Entire human space stations could fit in here, but there are only a few ordinary ships parked. When you exit the <ship>, several dire men in uniformed body armor greet you. Each holds a bright orange rifle whose scorching heat warps the air around them. They all stare intensely at you as another figure steps forward.`

> 			`	It is a woman who captures your attention, with a warm and open smile on her face. Strapped over the top of her silky white dress you see two revolvers and a sizable supply of ammo. Beyond that there is a knife on each leg, just above her knee-high combat boots, and you think there's another one between her shoulder-blades. A rainbow lock contrasts her otherwise light blond hair, and matches the rainbow feather on a necklace draped around her neck.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	It is a woman who captures your attention, with a warm and open smile on her face. Strapped over the top of her silky white dress you see two revolvers and a sizable supply of ammo. Beyond that there is a knife on each leg, just above her knee-high combat boots, and you think there's another one between her shoulder blades. A rainbow lock contrasts her otherwise light blond hair, and matches the rainbow feather on a necklace draped around her neck.`
```

	invisible
	source
		government Korath
	to offer
		has "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition: offered"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Just after the ship departs, you remember the warning from Iris: openly displaying your association with the Korath will anger half the galaxy. Hopefully that was just hyperbole...`
				decline

mission "Korath [F03]: Rabasot Pa'ah Failed Landings"
	name "Land on <planet>."
	description "Try again to land on <planet> after your last attempt failed."
	landing
	repeat 3
	source "Rabasot Pa'ah"
	destination "Rabasot Pa'ah"
	on offer
		conversation
			branch "first attempt"
				"Korath [F03]: Rabasot Pa'ah Failed Landings: offered" == 0
			branch "second attempt"
				"Korath [F03]: Rabasot Pa'ah Failed Landings: offered" == 1
			branch "third attempt"

			label "first attempt"
			scene scene/purple-lightning
			action
				log "Failed to land on Rabasot Pa'ah due to a powerful atmospheric event brought on by unusual interactions between the planet's atmosphere and the nova it orbits. Reconfigured the shields to act as a plow to get out of the storm. That shield configuration should allow safe transit through the atmosphere in another landing attempt."

> 			`As you descend through the magnetosphere, your computer warns you of a build-up of unusual charged particles, muons, which is a bit odd. From your training on hyperspace exit and entrance, you recall that the mean lifetime of a muon is measured in microseconds. Something here must be actively generating them.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`As you descend through the magnetosphere, your computer warns you of a build-up of unusual charged particles called muons, which is a bit odd. From your training on hyperspace exit and entrance, you recall that the mean lifetime of a muon is measured in microseconds. Something here must be actively generating them.`
```

			`	You travel deeper into the atmosphere, approaching what appears to be an inactive volcanic island chain. As usual, your ship's descent causes air currents, but the strange atmosphere turns those currents into a powerful storm. The muons mix with this event, creating catastrophic explosions of electrical discharge.`

> 			`	Recalling what you've read about extreme atmospheric landings, you reconfigure your shields to act as a plow, pushing through the storm. At first it isn't enough, so you pull upward, hoping the lower atmospheric density will let you escape. Once you're free, you realize you've already reached the exosphere.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	Remembering what you've read about extreme atmospheric landings, you reconfigure your shields to act as a plow, pushing through the storm. At first it isn't enough, so you pull upward, hoping the lower atmospheric density will let you escape. Once you're free, you realize you've already reached the exosphere.`
```

			label "third attempt"
			scene scene/blue-whale
			action
				set "landed on Rabasot Pa'ah"
				log "Discovered a creature in a bay on the ocean world of Rabasot Pa'ah with the front half of a whale and the back half of a giant squid. They seem out-of-place, since the planet is almost devoid of macroscopic lifeforms. Perhaps someone is shipping them to the planet?"
			`On your third attempt, you dodge most of the storms by flying into the atmosphere at an odd angle that keeps you in stable air nearly the whole way. After a long flight through safe atmosphere, you finally reach the bay and land on a durable mesa overlooking it. Extending your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface, you don your suit and walk out. It quickly becomes clear the mesa is artificial: it's a constructed landing pad for a ship of vast scale.`
			`	This is the perfect location for life, so it's no surprise there are small plants and a few fish in the water. The seas are calmer here than the rest of the planet and an unusual formation in the ionosphere protects this spot from the worst rays of the nova. The dominant land-based lifeform seems to be toothed worms about the size of your arm.`

> 			`	The strangest feature is what appears to be slow-moving islands. As one comes closer, its form is more clear: an unholy marriage between a blue whale and a giant squid. On the far end of the mesa, you spy a gravity lift system that looks suitable for lifting such a beast out of the water.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	The strangest feature is what appears to be slow-moving islands. As one comes closer, its form is more clear: an unholy marriage between a blue whale and a giant squid. On the far end of the mesa, you spy a gravity lift system that looks suitable for carrying such a beast out of the water.`
```

Author: Carrying implies horizontal movement as well as vertical, so this changes the meaning. However, it *would* need to be able to move horizontally. I think the correct change is to have a gravity *crane* system that can *carry* the beast. I shall make that change.

	destination "La'ab Bamen"
	to offer
		has "event: Korath [F04]: Fishy Delay Event"
	on offer
		conversation
			`While skimming damage and transit logs from your recent trips, a few old log entries catch your eye.`
			`	When the Korath were drawing systems, three seemed to jump out at you. You now know they're Misam, home of New Tortuga; Atik, where the La'ab Bamen black market resides; and Kor Ak'Mari, the ocean planet's system. The first fish you transferred from New Tortuga to La'ab Bamen looked like a tiny relative of the island-sized fish on the ocean planet.`
			`	Iris had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration. Most curious of all is the rainbow feather on her necklace. It was the exact shape of feathers on the Korath of Far'en Lei, but far more colorful.`
			`	You last saw Iris on <planet>. Perhaps it is time to seek answers.`
				accept

mission "Korath [F06]: The Rainbow Feather"
	landing
	invisible
	source "La'ab Bamen"
	to offer
		has "Korath [F05]: Fishy Reasoning: offered"
	on offer
		fail
		conversation
			`You find Iris in one of the narrow access tunnels of La'ab Bamen, observing the fish behind the glass.`

> 			`	"I was wondering when you'd seek me out," she says, with a worried look. "You gave those two patrols quite a scare on Far'en Lei. They had never seen a human before, and they found one armed at their jail's lock."`

Author: Captain Last brought a hand weapon.

> 			`	"I was wondering when you'd seek me out," she says, with a worried look. "You gave those two patrols quite a scare on Far'en Lei. They had never seen a human before, and they found one armed at their jail's lock."`

Author: I have revised the text so you only get that message if you pull out your gun. Otherwise, there are two other messages she'll use, depending on whether you offered food.

			`	"That, Captain, is the very core of their being. They never developed diplomacy because they didn't need it: a few feathers or the skin of the dead will end a conflict. That is, unless their terrible weapons annihilate the corpses, or if the enemies aren't Korath at all. We do what we can to mediate their troubles with humans, but we aren't always around."`
				goto check

			label freedom
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: freedom"
			`	"There are few life-supporting planets in the systems where the Korath are exiled. One is the violent planet you visited: Rabasot Pa'ah. The Korath discovered New Tortuga has a similar environment, but it had evolved macroscopic life. The creature you found, the Pwason Gra, attracted them.`

> 			`	"They could not grow the creatures either artificially or on Rabasot Pa'ah, since the larval form requires very specific conditions. The juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah, growing far larger than on New Tortuga. The conditions of their exile prevented the Korath from fishing on New Tortuga themselves, so they had to make a deal with humans.`

Reviewer 4: `They could not grow the creatures... on Rabasot Pa'ah` 
`The juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah`
Can the creature survive on Rabasot Pa'ah or not?

Author: The larval form cannot, but the juvenile and adult forms can. That means the creatures cannot reproduce; they can only be shipped over, raised, and eaten. (This is, in fact, the entire premise of the story.)

I think "grow" should be "farm."

Author: I reworded some things and added more information. How is it now?

> 			`	"They could not grow the creatures from an egg either artificially or on Rabasot Pa'ah, because the larval form requires very specific conditions. The juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah, growing far larger than on New Tortuga. That means they need a steady supply of juveniles for transport. The conditions of their exile prevented the Korath from fishing on New Tortuga themselves, so they had to make a deal with humans.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"They could not grow the creatures from an egg either artificially or on Rabasot Pa'ah, because the larval form requires very specific conditions. However, the juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah, growing far larger than on New Tortuga. That means they need a steady supply of juveniles for transport. The conditions of their exile prevented the Korath from fishing on New Tortuga themselves, so they had to make a deal with humans.`
```

			`	"The imperialist Drak race sent living weapons, the Archons, to conquer the Korath under the guise of protection. The Archons' antimatter weapons and seeming invincibility was too much, until the Korath gathered a larger fleet. When they managed to injure one Archon, the others revealed frightening powers. They tore open rifts in reality, simply swallowing up Korath ships. Hidden super-weapons in planetoids, intended as mines, were harmless, as the Archons shattered the planetoids and atomized the weapons. In every battle, all Korath military ships were destroyed, but the civilians were somehow unscathed.`
			`	"The Korath saw certain defeat, and in surrender the Drak offered two options. The Korath may give up their religions and live as pets of their own former friends, the Quarg. Or, they could keep their religions and live in starving exile near us.`
			# The "YOU" in all caps is to indicate Iris is briefly raising her voice. Iris momentarily departs from the calm and kind persona she usually displays because she's infuriated beyond reason. This unusual departure from the typical Endless Sky writing rules is to emphasize the importance of what you did wrong.

> 			`	"The Drak left the exiles with a warning: destroy Far'en Lei, and we will kill you all. You may never leave exile until you heal that planet and live there peacefully. As a precaution, and almost as a religion, they forbid weapons on that planet. A condition YOU violated." She looks heated for a moment before continuing.`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
			`	"The Drak left the exiles with a warning: destroy Far'en Lai, and we will kill you all. You may never leave exile until you heal that planet and live there peacefully. As a precaution, and almost as a religion, they forbid weapons on that planet. A condition YOU violated." She looks heated for a moment before continuing.`
```

			choice
				`	(Draw where human territory is.)`
					goto draw
				`	(Pretend not to understand what the map is.)`
					goto wait

			label draw
			`	You draw the outline of your own ship on the same side of the core as theirs, but farther out, then draw a line around it marking the extents of human space. The Korath responds by drawing something that looks like a spider, beyond the southern edge of human space. It covers one whole galactic arm. Then, near the top of human space it pushes its finger deep into the ground, and again just north of there, and connects the two holes with a line.`
			choice
				`	(Add some details I know to the map.)`
					goto add
				`	(Wait to see what else they will draw.)`
					goto wait

			label add
			# MZ wrote the parts about spiders, long before the Coalition was added to the game, the spiders are Archons. (so saith ravenshining)

> 			`	Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a partial ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw more of the spiders, again spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over them so the lines are barely visible.`

Reviewer 7: It is hard to get an unambiguous mental picture of some of the drawings in this mission. You should consider including scene images.

Author: It may be for the best that we don't have them. Some of the pictures, if shown with precision, would give away lore that doesn't exist yet. For example, the locations of Archons and Quarg Ringworlds beyond mapped space. Another problem is the pictures with a Korath's finger pressing into the ground. For those, we would have to decide what Korath fingers look like. Generally, we don't design aliens to that detail, leaving it to the imagination of the reader.

Including pictures *would* be possible, but we'd have to tweak the text somewhat.

Reviewer 3: I have been meaning to make some scene images for some time.  There's a beach near me that would be perfect... My phone camera is getting scratchy though and may no longer be up to the task.

The entire galaky does not need to be in-shot, and it can be taken without a finger -- just the impression left by one.

			label wait

> 			`	The Korath pause for a minute and look at you, then begin drawing again. "Korath," says one of them, and draws another outline of one of their warships, but much larger, on the northern side of the galactic core. Then they brush away the outline of that big ship and draw three smaller ones, facing each other. "Korath," they says again, "no'lai en vas, certu forgu, mik'lak'nal torq." They rake their fingers through the sand, erasing the outlines of the three ships.`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
			`	The Korath pause for a minute and look at you, then begin drawing again. "Korath," says one of them, and draws another outline of one of their warships, but much larger, on the northern side of the galactic core. Then they brush away the outline of that big ship and draw three smaller ones, facing each other. "Korath," they say again, "no'lai en vas, certu forgu, mik'lak'nal torq." They rake their fingers through the sand, erasing the outlines of the three ships.`
```

This one is also in the codespell file.

Author: I applied this one manually.

			choice
				`	(Nod.)`
				`	(Make a motion like a ship landing and point to the Korath's mouth.)`
			action
				set "First Contact: Korath Exiles: agreed to bring food"
			`	"Lasel," says the Korath, stretching out both arms toward you, fingers curled back towards its body. You make the same gesture, and they reverse their hands, linking their scaly fingers with yours. You're not sure if that is the right response, but the Korath seem satisfied, saying, "Nik lak'mal." They get back in their fighters and take off, circling above you.`
				decline

			label alone
			`	On the map, you draw a line between Korath space and human space. "Humans will stay here," you say, "if the Korath will stay here. Humans here, Korath here." You point to each location for emphasis.`
				goto parting
			label fight

> 			`	They pushes their finger deep into the ground at a point on the map not too far from Earth. "Ka puk soru, nik ka korath."`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
			`	They push their finger deep into the ground at a point on the map not too far from Earth. "Ka puk soru, nik ka korath."`
```

	illegal 50000
	deadline 4
	clearance "The authorities do not respond, but a concealed hangar bay door opens. The meaning is clear: land here."
	source "New Tortuga"
	destination "La'ab Bamen"
	on offer
		event "know about Korath fish jobs"
		conversation
			`Flying through the atmosphere of New Tortuga, you pass over a typhoon, overfly a tsunami, and take a short detour around a supercell thunderstorm. After a half hour of delicate flying, you approach doors more than a hundred meters tall. As they open, you can see they're ten meters thick, made of a material you don't recall seeing on human planets. Two layers of shields shut down in anticipation of your entry, each strong enough to stop a Navy Carrier. To the left and right, there are turrets with heat signatures higher than a Breeder Reactor. Whoever built this place values their safety... and has the funds and technology to secure it.`

> 			`	Spaceport authorities direct you to bay 23X-5, which contains an odd ship you see on your way in. It appears to be an old-fashioned jet aircraft, whose four jet engines have been replaced with small ion engines. From the gold pipes on the tail, it appears to have a hyperdrive built into the hull. Several packages are being unloaded from the plane. A woman is waving her arms, perhaps with anger, as she walks from the cockpit into the spaceport.`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
			`	Spaceport authorities direct you to bay 23X-5, which contains an odd ship you see on your way in. It resembles an old-fashioned jet aircraft, whose four jet engines have been replaced with small ion engines. From the gold pipes on the tail, it appears to have a hyperdrive built into the hull. Several packages are being unloaded from the plane. A woman is waving her arms, perhaps with anger, as she walks from the cockpit into the spaceport.`
```

Having "appears" twice in one paragraph looks odd.

mission "First Contact: Korath Exiles"
	landing
	source "Far'en Lai"
	to offer
		not "Wanderers: Sestor: Exiles 2: active"
	on offer
		fail
		conversation
			# Premise: Although there are Korath who are around humans frequently,
			# that is a tiny fraction of the Korath population. Most will not have
			# even seen a human and certainly won't recognize all human ships.
			# That is niche knowledge, and it has not spread far yet. Most Korath
			# know humans merely as local food suppliers, and they certainly won't
			# know about specific human planets other than New Tortuga.

			# The two Korath who meet you here aren't certain of what a human looks
			# like and don't know more than a few words, simply because the chance
			# of the first two available Korath pilots knowing such details is
			# quite small. An armed landing on Far'en Lai is an emergency, and they
			# couldn't wait for a diplomat from La'ab Bamen to arrive.

> 			`Before you even step out of your ship, two Korath fighters come hurtling down out of the sky to land, sending up a spray of sand as they skid to a stop about ten meters away from you as you open the hatch. The pilots get out and approach you. They are short, stocky, and somewhat reptilian in appearance, and both have a crest of red and brown feathers running along the top of their heads and hanging down their backs. Their clothes are a brightly colored patchwork material. They do not seem to be armed. One of them stretches both arms out sideways and says, "Oi, oi!"`

Author: You're surrounded by ships labeled "Korath."

> 			`Before you even step out of your ship, two Korath fighters come hurtling down out of the sky to land, sending up a spray of sand as they skid to a stop about ten meters away from you as you open the hatch. The pilots get out and approach you. They are short, stocky, and somewhat reptilian in appearance, and both have a crest of red and brown feathers running along the top of their heads and hanging down their backs. Their clothes are a brightly colored patchwork material. They do not seem to be armed. One of them stretches both arms out sideways and says, "Oi, oi!"`

Author: How does it look without "Korath?"

![Screenshot_2023-06-12_19-44-20](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/assets/116329264/9a4c9559-fc9d-4598-9443-d10d4dcd288e)

	on offer
		conversation
			`You approach the asteroid, and a crater suddenly opens up, revealing a docking bay. Entire human space stations could fit in here, but there are only a few ordinary ships parked. When you exit the <ship>, several dire men in uniformed body armor greet you. Each holds a bright orange rifle whose scorching heat warps the air around them. They all stare intensely at you as another figure steps forward.`
			`	It is a woman who captures your attention, with a warm and open smile on her face. Strapped over the top of her silky white dress you see two revolvers and a sizable supply of ammo. Beyond that there is a knife on each leg, just above her knee-high combat boots, and you think there's another one between her shoulder blades. A rainbow lock contrasts her otherwise light blond hair, and matches the rainbow feather on a necklace draped around her neck.`
			`	She shakes your hand firmly. "My name is Iris." Her glowing smile quickly switches to a look of concern. "We don't like surprises, Captain <last>. I was expecting to see Jenny Jetmaster, but here you are in her stead. Care to explain?"`
			choice
				`	(Pull out your gun.)`
					goto gun

> 					to display

Author: It's gone now.

			`	"I fear this traumatic first contact has scarred their view of humans. They despise the Syndicate, for its anti-religion policies; and pirates, for enslavement. The vastness of our species makes them fearful, despite their technological superiority. I fear broader peaceful relations between humans and Korath will be many years away.`
				goto check

			label exile
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: exile"
			`	"Before their exile, the Korath had a vast and thriving civilization that spanned many systems. Unfortunately, due to their very nature, they could not resolve differences easily. This led to a terrible war that left their civilization weakened.`
			# Iris's explanation is extremely biased because her primary source
			# is the Korath exiles. She is presenting a human interpretation of
			# the Exiles' feelings about their own fate.

> 			`	"The imperialist Drak race sent living weapons, the Archons, to conquer the Korath under the guise of protection. The Archons' antimatter weapons and seeming invincibility was too much, until the Korath gathered a larger fleet. When they managed to injure one Archon, the others revealed frightening powers. They tore open rifts in reality, simply swallowing up Korath ships. Hidden super-weapons in planetoids, intended as mines, were harmless, as the Archons shattered the planetoids and atomized the weapons. In every battle, all Korath military ships were destroyed, but the civilians were somehow unscathed.`

Reviewer 8: > They tore open rifts in reality, simply swallowing up Korath ships.

The Pug did something similar to a ringworld, and that was way beyond the power of the Drak. I guess the scale is entirely different, though, and there is no guarantee these things are actually related. Or that the korath assessment of the Drak weapon was accurate.

Author: This is a human's interpretation of a Korath's story of their gestalt's racial memory of an Archon. It is intentionally vague and ominous.

Reviewer 3: > ### Lies and half-truths
> It's not necessary for anyone to tell the truth to the player; in fact, it's more interesting if they don't. For example, the galaxy is supposedly ruled by a species called the Drak (who do not yet exist in-game). Every alien species you talk to says slightly different things about the Drak, and the two factions within the Hai also tell you different stories. Some missions could involve trying to learn more details about the Quarg or the Drak.

					goto fire
				`	(Point to the double-ended ships facing off against each other this time.)`
					goto fight
				`	(Change the drawing to emphasize the ships moving apart again.)`
					goto alone

			label fire
			`	A furious exchange of gestures and vocalizations ensues between the two Korath, and they begin vigorously drawing, erasing, and drawing more things in the sand between themselves, out of your sight. Eventually, the pace of their conversation slows and they turn back to you.`
			# This Korath is asking you to return here with food.
			`	They draw your ships back on the illustration of the planet, pick up the sand for your ship, and throw it back in human space again. Then they collect a few pebbles from human space, redraw your ship back on the planet again, and place the pebbles inside. Picking up one of the pebbles, one of them reaches into its coat, takes out a glowing red orb, unscrews a cap from the top, and drinks the thick, red fluid. They gesture with the pebble, gesture with the now-empty orb, and place all the pebbles on the drawing of the planet between your three ships.`
			choice
				`	(Nod.)`

> 				`	(Make a motion like a ship landing, and point to the Korath's mouth.)`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
				`	(Make a motion like a ship landing and point to the Korath's mouth.)`
```

	illegal 50000
	deadline 4
	clearance "The authorities do not respond, but a concealed hangar bay door opens. The meaning is clear: land here."
	source "New Tortuga"
	destination "La'ab Bamen"
	on offer
		event "know about Korath fish jobs"
		conversation
			`Flying through the atmosphere of New Tortuga, you pass over a typhoon, overfly a tsunami, and take a short detour around a supercell thunderstorm. After a half hour of delicate flying, you approach doors more than a hundred meters tall. As they open, you can see they're ten meters thick, made of a material you don't recall seeing on human planets. Two layers of shields shut down in anticipation of your entry, each strong enough to stop a Navy Carrier. To the left and right, there are turrets with heat signatures higher than a Breeder Reactor. Whoever built this place values their safety... and has the funds and technology to secure it.`

> 			`	Spaceport authorities direct you to bay 23X-5, which contains an odd ship you see on your way in. It appears to be an old-fashioned jet aircraft, whose four jet engines have been replaced with small ion engines. From the gold pipes on the tail, it appears to have a hyperdrive built into the hull. Several packages are being unloaded from the plane. A woman is waving her arms, perhaps with anger, as she walks from the cockpit into the airport.`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	Spaceport authorities direct you to bay 23X-5, which contains an odd ship you see on your way in. It appears to be an old-fashioned jet aircraft, whose four jet engines have been replaced with small ion engines. From the gold pipes on the tail, it appears to have a hyperdrive built into the hull. Several packages are being unloaded from the plane. A woman is waving her arms, perhaps with anger, as she walks from the cockpit into the spaceport.`
```

> 			`	The ship is parked next to yours and the woman is about to walk past you. She looks quite distraught, and perchance looks your way. Maybe a distraction will cheer her up?`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	The ship is parked next to yours and the woman is about to walk past you. She looks quite distraught and perchance looks your way. Maybe a distraction will cheer her up?`
```

> 			`	The ship is parked next to yours and the woman is about to walk past you. She looks quite distraught, and perchance looks your way. Maybe a distraction will cheer her up?`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	The ship is parked next to yours and the woman is about to walk past you. She looks quite distraught and, perchance, looks your way. Maybe a distraction will cheer her up?`
```

This could help emphasize that intent of ambiguity here.

						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
			label ship
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
				log "Minor People" "Jenny Jetmaster" "Latest in a family line that has operated and maintained a replica of an ancient jet aircraft and made money on airshows. She is now on the run from the Syndicate for rescuing her persecuted uncle from Tinker."
			`	You see her expression brighten as she walks towards you. "It's an heirloom," she says proudly, gesturing widely at the ship, "which has been in the family for centuries. My distant ancestor got a military surplus cargo plane and refurbished it. They used it as a personal craft. Each generation added to it; every piece has been repaired or replaced over the last thousand years. It's more of a replica now.`
			`	"The whole thing has been modernized - about a dozen times. There's a hyperdrive built into the hull itself, and those ion engines aren't of Syndicate design. They're custom-built, with ion propulsion, steering, and atmospheric anti-grav, in one assembly. The design was once called a Jetmaster, and my family have taken the Jetmaster name as our own.`

> 			`	"Jenny Jetmaster," she says, with a choreographed bow. "My family used to do air shows all across human space, until my uncle got on the bad side of the Syndicate. We flew all the way from Bourne to Tinker to pick him up and smuggled him out to New Tortuga where the Syndicate cannot reach us. Now I smuggle cargo through hyperspace in a 20th century aircraft!"`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	"Jenny Jetmaster," she says, with a choreographed bow. "My family used to do air shows all across human space, until my uncle got on the bad side of the Syndicate. We flew all the way from Bourne to Tinker to pick him up and smuggled him out here to New Tortuga where the Syndicate cannot reach us. Now I smuggle cargo through hyperspace in a 20th century aircraft!"`
```
Emphasism to help player grounding in the story.

			branch questions
				has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
			label down
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"

> 			`	Her face turns sour and she says, "Unfortunately, I can't finish my current delivery. My mother is quite sick, and I want to get to Freedom before..." she trails off. "Well, a client really needs this delivery, and I have to find someone to do it."`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	Her face turns sour, and she says, "Unfortunately, I can't finish my current delivery. My mother is quite sick, and I want to get to Freedom before..." she trails off. "Well, a client really needs this delivery, and I have to find someone to do it."`
```

				goto "d'ya want the job"

	on enter Atik
		dialog "It seems you do not have automatic clearance to <planet>. If you talk to the planet, the authorities will probably let you land."
	on visit
		dialog "You've arrived at <planet> but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."

event "know about Korath fish jobs"

mission "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition"
	landing
	name "A fishy proposition"
	description "Transport <cargo> to <planet> by <date> for <payment>. Avoid getting scanned or landing on high-security planets, or you may be fined."
	cargo "planetary supplies" 15
	# See note above in "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal" for why this is illegal.
	illegal 50000
	"apparent payment" 140000
	deadline 4
	clearance "The authorities do not respond, but a concealed hangar bay door opens. The meaning is clear: land here."
	source "La'ab Bamen"
	destination "New Tortuga"
	to offer
		has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You approach the asteroid and a crater suddenly opens up, revealing a docking bay. Entire human space stations could fit in here, but there are only a few ordinary ships parked. When you exit the <ship>, several dire men in uniformed body armor greet you. Each holds a bright orange rifle whose scorching heat warps the air around them. They all stare intensely at you as another figure steps forward.`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`You approach the asteroid, and a crater suddenly opens up, revealing a docking bay. Entire human space stations could fit in here, but there are only a few ordinary ships parked. When you exit the <ship>, several dire men in uniformed body armor greet you. Each holds a bright orange rifle whose scorching heat warps the air around them. They all stare intensely at you as another figure steps forward.`
```

			`	Another well-armed woman in a white dress meets you, accompanied by security guards with the same uniform as on La'ab Bamen. "Ah, Captain <last>! The next shipment."`
			choice
				`	"What was this cargo?"`
				`	"I'm glad to have served another happy customer."`
					goto done
			`	She looks shocked. "You should never ask that question." Her face relaxes. "You're in luck this time: your cargo was not confidential, so I can satisfy your curiosity.`
			`	"Much of our planet's food comes from waste processing systems that convert sewage into edible materials. They rely heavily on aquaponics using extraterrestrial species. These barrels contain several genetically-engineered organisms that feed on sewage and secrete certain types of proteins. The process produces edible algae-like substances; with spices and 3D printers, it is quite palatable. Still, we prefer to eat real food when we can.`

			label done
			`	"Your payment is <payment>, a bit higher than promised. Thank you for the prompt delivery, Captain <last>!"`
	on visit

> 		dialog "You've arrived at <planet> but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
		dialog "You've arrived at <planet>, but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."
```

				launch

			label "second attempt"
			scene scene/volcanic-eruption-at-night
			action
				log "Was able to pass through the atmosphere of Rabasot Pa'ah despite the unusual atmospheric event. A volcanic eruption nearly hit the ship, perhaps caused by landing in the wrong area. There is a large island - or small continent - that looks suitable for landing. Another landing attempt should succeed."
			`In this trip, your ship's descent stirred up awe-inspiring storm clouds, but traveling through them was easy. Your shield plow technique took you down to the lower troposphere, where the storms cleared enough for you to see. The original island chain was too far away, so you set course for a larger island nearby.`
			`	Aiming for a hard-looking piece of ground, you touch down. As this planet has twice Earth's gravity, you extend your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface. Donning a space suit for safety's sake, you walk out to see nature taking control once again: the massive volcano in front of you starts to erupt.`

> 			`	After a dash to the cockpit, still in your suit, you take off, satisfied that you've reached the surface - albeit in the worst possible spot. A third attempt will certainly succeed, as you saw a small continent with no apparent volcanic activity, and a pleasant-looking bay.`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	After a dash to the cockpit, still in your suit, you take off, satisfied that you've reached the surface - albeit in the worst possible spot. A third attempt will certainly succeed, as you saw a small continent with no apparent volcanic activity and a pleasant-looking bay.`
```

				launch

			label "third attempt"
			scene scene/blue-whale
			action
				set "landed on Rabasot Pa'ah"
				log "Discovered a creature in a bay on the ocean world of Rabasot Pa'ah with the front half of a whale and the back half of a giant squid. They seem out-of-place, since the planet is almost devoid of macroscopic lifeforms. Perhaps someone is shipping them to the planet?"
			`On your third attempt, you dodge most of the storms by flying into the atmosphere at an odd angle that keeps you in stable air nearly the whole way. After a long flight through safe atmosphere, you finally reach the bay and land on a durable mesa overlooking it. Extending your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface, you don your suit and walk out. It quickly becomes clear the mesa is artificial: it's a constructed landing pad for a ship of vast scale.`

> 			`	This is the perfect location for life, so it's no surprise there are small plants and a few fish in the water. The seas are calmer here than the rest of the planet and an unusual formation in the ionosphere protects this spot from the worst rays of the nova. The dominant land-based lifeform seems to be toothed worms about the size of your arm.`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
			`	This is the perfect location for life, so it's no surprise there are small plants and a few fish in the water. The seas are calmer here than the rest of the planet, and an unusual formation in the ionosphere protects this spot from the worst rays of the nova. The dominant land-based lifeform seems to be toothed worms about the size of your arm.`
```

			`	You approach one of the Quarg in the spaceport and request assistance with the data chip. It stops and acknowledges you, but doesn't speak. It pauses for a few moments after you make your request, but then holds out its hand. Taking the data chip, it slots it into a communicator of some sort, slowly nods to itself, and hands it back to you.`
			`	You return to your ship and try plugging the chip into your systems again, which now displays two files: one in the Korath language, and one in your own. You open the file in your language, and it reads: "The <EDC-ship> is a ship of grief, bringing great pain in memories that sing for generations. Love is a void in the souls of many. Know all that <first> <last> is a true Efret by heart, if not by skin. The <EDC-ship> is theirs, to save lives and keep memories."`
			`	You carefully store the chip in a safe place.`

> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

```

			`	"A while back, my aunt was fined 25,000 credits for using a knock-off fuel gasket on her racing Flivver. She used the gasket because it was more reliable than a genuine one. Of course, that doesn't matter to the Republic. The Navy officer that caught her knew how dumb the law was, so he let her keep the gasket."`
				goto "d'ya want the job"
			label "accept mission"
			action
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: spicy"
			branch accept
			label "decline mission"
			action
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: spicy"
			branch decline

	on enter Atik
		dialog "It seems you do not have automatic clearance to <planet>. If you talk to the planet, the authorities will probably let you land."
	on visit

> 		dialog "You've arrived at <planet> but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
		dialog "You've arrived at <planet>, but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."
```

			`	Another well-armed woman in a white dress meets you, accompanied by security guards with the same uniform as on La'ab Bamen. "Ah, Captain <last>! The next shipment."`
			choice
				`	"What was this cargo?"`
				`	"I'm glad to have served another happy customer."`
					goto done
			`	She looks shocked. "You should never ask that question." Her face relaxes. "You're in luck this time: your cargo was not confidential, so I can satisfy your curiosity.`
			`	"Much of our planet's food comes from waste processing systems that convert sewage into edible materials. They rely heavily on aquaponics using extraterrestrial species. These barrels contain several genetically-engineered organisms that feed on sewage and secrete certain types of proteins. The process produces edible algae-like substances; with spices and 3D printers, it is quite palatable. Still, we prefer to eat real food when we can.`

			label done
			`	"Your payment is <payment>, a bit higher than promised. Thank you for the prompt delivery, Captain <last>!"`

> 			`	"In the future, you will find more fish delivery jobs on the New Tortuga job board. They will grant you clearance to land on La'ab Bamen, whose job board has lucrative opportunities.`

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
			`	"In the future, you will find more fish delivery jobs on the New Tortuga job board. They will grant you clearance to land on La'ab Bamen, whose job board has lucrative opportunities."`
```

			choice
				`	(Point again to the ominous collection of ships and fire, with the three ships flying together.)`
					goto fire
				`	(Point to the double-ended ships facing off against each other this time.)`
					goto fight
				`	(Change the drawing to emphasize the ships moving apart again.)`
					goto alone

			label fire
			`	A furious exchange of gestures and vocalizations ensues between the two Korath; they begin vigorously drawing, erasing, and drawing more things in the sand between themselves, out of your sight. Eventually, the pace of their conversation slows and they turn back to you.`
			# This Korath is asking you to return here with food.

> 			`	They draw your ships back on the illustration of the planet, pick up the sand for your ship, and throw it back in human space again. Then they collect a few pebbles from human space, redraw your ship back on the planet again, and place the pebbles inside. Picking up one of the pebbles, one of them reaches into their coat, takes out a glowing red orb, unscrews a cap from the top, and drinks the thick, red fluid. They gesture with the pebble, gesture with the now-empty orb, and place all the pebbles on the drawing of the planet between your three ships.`

Reviewer 11: I think that a player reading this will understand the Korath are asking for some sort of exchange, but it might be difficult to make the connection to the Korath asking for food without something more explicit for the reader. If it doesn't matter for the player to understand what the Korath are asking for, probably fine as is, but if this is a dependency then maybe something that more explicitly conveys the ask could make sense:
```suggestion
			`	They draw your ships back on the illustration of the planet, pick up the sand for your ship, and throw it back in human space again. Then they collect a few pebbles from human space, redraw your ship back on the planet again, and place the pebbles inside. Picking up one of the pebbles, one of them reaches into their coat, takes out a glowing red orb, unscrews a cap from the top, and drinks the thick, red fluid. They gesture with the pebble, gesture with the now-empty orb, and place all the pebbles on the drawing of the planet between your three ships. They're asking you to bring back food on your ship.`
```

			label questions
			choice
				`	"That's an interesting ship."`
					goto ship
					to display
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
				`	"What's getting you down?"`
					goto down
					to display
						has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
				`	"What sort of delivery?"`
					goto mission
					to display
						has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				`	"Sure, I could deliver it for you."`
					goto yup
					to display
						has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				`	"I wish I could help, but I do not want to get involved with this."`
					decline
					to display
						or
							has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
							has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
							has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				`	(Ignore her and go about your business.)`
					defer
					to display
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
			label ship
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
				clear "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: timer"

> 				log "Minor People" "Jenny Jetmaster" "Latest in a family line that has operated and maintained a replica of an ancient jet aircraft and made money on airshows. She is now on the run from the Syndicate for rescuing her persecuted uncle from Tinker."

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
				log "Minor People" "Jenny Jetmaster" `Latest in a family line that has operated and maintained a replica of an ancient jet aircraft and made money on airshows. She is now on the run from the Syndicate for rescuing her persecuted uncle from Tinker.`
```
style

	invisible
	source
		government Korath
	to offer
		has "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition: offered"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Just after the ship departs, you remember the warning from Iris: openly displaying your association with the Korath will anger half the galaxy. Hopefully that was just hyperbole...`
				decline

mission "Korath [F03]: Rabasot Pa'ah Failed Landings"
	name "Land on <planet>."
	description "Try again to land on <planet> after your last attempt failed."
	landing
	repeat 3
	source "Rabasot Pa'ah"
	destination "Rabasot Pa'ah"
	on offer
		conversation
			branch "first attempt"
				"Korath [F03]: Rabasot Pa'ah Failed Landings: offered" == 0
			branch "second attempt"
				"Korath [F03]: Rabasot Pa'ah Failed Landings: offered" == 1
			branch "third attempt"

			label "first attempt"
			scene scene/purple-lightning
			action
				log "Failed to land on Rabasot Pa'ah due to a powerful atmospheric event brought on by unusual interactions between the planet's atmosphere and the nova it orbits. Reconfigured the shields to act as a plow to get out of the storm. That shield configuration should allow safe transit through the atmosphere in another landing attempt."

> 			`As you descend through the magnetosphere, your computer warns you of a build-up of unusual charged particles called muons, which is a bit odd. From your training on hyperspace exit and entrance, you recall that the mean lifetime of a muon is measured in microseconds. Something here must be actively generating them.`

Reviewer 10: Maybe the player didn't take an official course, but I imagine they still would have studied before buying a ship.
Regardless of whether they did or not, I think the suggestion works better.

			`	Certainly, a second landing attempt will get you through the atmosphere. Next, you'll have to scout for a safe place to land on this world of water and storms.`
				launch

			label "second attempt"
			scene scene/volcanic-eruption-at-night
			action
				log "Was able to pass through the atmosphere of Rabasot Pa'ah despite the unusual atmospheric event. A volcanic eruption nearly hit the ship, perhaps caused by landing in the wrong area. There is a large island that might be suitable for landing. Another attempt could succeed."
			`In this trip, your ship's descent stirred up awe-inspiring storm clouds, but traveling through them was easy. Your shield plow technique took you down to the lower troposphere, where the storms cleared enough for you to see. The original island chain was too far away, so you set course for another one nearby.`

> 			`	Aiming for the hardest-looking piece of ground your sensors can find, you touch down. As this planet has twice Earth's gravity, you extend your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface. Donning a space suit for safety's sake, you walk out to see nature taking control once again: the massive volcano in front of you starts to erupt.`

Reviewer 11: Extending a ship's artificial gravity field to the surface is a remarkable power with implications that I don't _think_ has been demonstrated anywhere else. A typical person can carry their bodyweight for a couple of minutes, so it could be simpler to sidestep that issue where the player can still go outside the ship without such a feature:
```suggestion
			`	Aiming for the hardest-looking piece of ground your sensors can find, you touch down. As this planet has twice Earth's gravity, you brace yourself and don a space suit for safety. You walk out to see nature taking control once again: the massive volcano in front of you starts to erupt.`
```
Or donning the spacesuit with an exoskeleton support in the high gravity:
```suggestion
			`	Aiming for the hardest-looking piece of ground your sensors can find, you touch down. As this planet has twice Earth's gravity, you don a space suit for exoskeletal support and safety. You walk out to see nature taking control once again: the massive volcano in front of you starts to erupt.`
```

			label "third attempt"
			scene scene/blue-whale
			action
				set "landed on Rabasot Pa'ah"
				log "Discovered a creature in a bay on the ocean world of Rabasot Pa'ah with the front half of a whale and the back half of a giant squid. They seem out-of-place, since the planet is almost devoid of macroscopic lifeforms. Perhaps someone is shipping them to the planet?"
			`On your third attempt, you dodge most of the storms by flying into the atmosphere at an odd angle that keeps you in stable air nearly the whole way. After a long flight through safe atmosphere, you finally reach the bay and land on a durable mesa overlooking it. Extending your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface, you don your suit and walk out. It quickly becomes clear the mesa is artificial: it's a constructed landing pad for a ship of vast scale.`
			`	This is the perfect location for life, so it's no surprise there are small plants and a few fish in the water. The seas are calmer here than the rest of the planet, and an unusual formation in the ionosphere protects this spot from the worst rays of the carbon star. The dominant land-based lifeform seems to be toothed worms about the size of your arm.`

> 			`	The strangest feature is what appears to be slow-moving islands. As one comes closer, its form is more clear: an unholy marriage between a blue whale and a giant squid. On the far end of the mesa, you spy a gravity crane system that looks suitable for carrying such a beast out of the water.`

Reviewer 11: Mostly clarity questions:
1. It is not clear to me what a gravity crane system is or looks like - is it like a mounted tractor beam?
2. It feels like a stretch to see a tractor beam (or normal crane) and think it's for capturing large sea life. If you're on a built landing dock for enormous ships, I'd be more likely to assume its for loading & unloading cargo generally or something to do with the structure. If you want to connect it to to the whale-squid creature, maybe scatter hints to that like fishing equipment and whatnot.
```suggestion
			`	The strangest feature is what appears to be slow-moving islands. As one comes closer, its form becomes clearer: an unholy marriage between a blue whale and a giant squid. On the far end of the mesa you spot a massive tractor beam crane; thick fishing nets hang from its frame, suggesting it could carry the beasts.`
```

				goto check

			label freedom
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: freedom"
			`	"There are few life-supporting planets in the systems where the Korath are exiled. One is the violent planet you visited: Rabasot Pa'ah. The Korath discovered New Tortuga has a similar environment, but it had evolved macroscopic life. The creature you found, the Pwason Gra, attracted them.`
			`	"They could not grow the creatures from an egg either artificially or on Rabasot Pa'ah, because the larval form requires very specific conditions. However, the juvenile and adult forms thrive on Rabasot Pa'ah, growing far larger than on New Tortuga. That means they need a steady supply of juveniles for transport. The conditions of their exile prevented the Korath from fishing on New Tortuga themselves, so they had to make a deal with humans.`
			`	"Not understanding our society, they talked to the first fishers they found, who couldn't help them, because those fishers were slaves. To Korath, self-expression is a religion and almost a biological necessity. Slavery to them is as abhorrent as," she thinks for a moment, "consuming the skin of dead relatives is to us.`

> 			`	"They made a deal: freedom for fish. The Korath provided rifles in secret, and the slaves drove their masters off the planet. Ex-Syndicate refugees who fled persecution to live here helped us form a functioning government. Now, we give juvenile fish to the Korath, and they assist us in industry, mining, food production, and defense of our systems.`

Reviewer 10: Does the Republic know that the Korath are partnering with pirates?
The Syndicate may not even have told them about the rebellion, because that would be an admission to having slaves. And from the Syndicate perspective, some of their slaves figured out how to grab rifles and break away - somehow. They wouldn't necessarily know of any alien involvement.

> 			`	"They made a deal: freedom for fish. The Korath provided rifles in secret, and the slaves drove their masters off the planet. Ex-Syndicate refugees who fled persecution to live here helped us form a functioning government. Now, we give juvenile fish to the Korath, and they assist us in industry, mining, food production, and defense of our systems.`

Reviewer 12: > To me, the current framing makes the Republic/Syndicate feel like: "the Korath protecting New Tortuga are so powerful that we aren't going to worry about them," while it would likely be closer to "the Korath protecting New Tortuga are so powerful that we are going to urgently pursue any way to level the playing field before they destroy us."

Chiming in as a player, my immediate thought went to the device that was used on Zenith. I don't think any sane government would be investing/wasting resources during peacetime to develop superweapons of that caliber for use against its own citizens, even after the FW civil war began. I also don't think it would be for the Alphas, because the Republic seems like it would rather spend the money on more popular short-term projects to win reelections (like our real-world governments and global warming/asteroid defense), and in their defense, without knowing about the Kor Sestor, that would probably be the better choice. So I interpreted it as an anti-Korath/Hai contingency.

Also, I read the old lore Google Doc, and it said that it was intended to be a stolen Korath bomb.

			choice
				`	(Draw where human territory is.)`
					goto draw
				`	(Pretend not to understand what the map is.)`
					goto wait

			label draw
			`	You draw the outline of your own ship on the same side of the core as theirs, but farther out, then draw a line around it marking the extents of human space. The Korath responds by drawing something that looks like a squirrel, beyond the northern edge of human space. Then, near the top of human space they push their finger deep into the ground, and again just north of there, and connect the two holes with a line.`
			choice
				`	(Add some details I know to the map.)`
					goto add
				`	(Wait to see what else they will draw.)`
					goto wait

			label add
			# MZ wrote the parts about spiders, long before the Coalition was added to the game, the spiders are Archons. (so saith ravenshining)

> 			`	Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a partial ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw more of the spiders, again spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over them so the lines are barely visible.`

Author: Corrected. I hope @ravenshining can confirm I correctly:

`Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a partial ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw spiders, also spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over the spiders so they are barely visible.`

> 			`	Near the southern end of human space, you draw a dot with a partial ring around it: the Quarg ringworld, under construction. The Korath respond by both beginning to draw more rings, spread out all over the galaxy, some broken, some complete. Then they draw more of the spiders, again spread out all over the galaxy, and then sprinkle sand over them so the lines are barely visible.`

Reviewer 3: Sure.  It's a bit wordy, but I'll fix that.

			`	The ship is parked next to yours and the woman is about to walk past you. She looks quite distraught and, perchance, looks your way. Maybe a distraction will cheer her up?`
			label questions
			choice
				`	"That's an interesting ship."`
					goto ship
					to display
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
				`	"What's getting you down?"`
					goto down
					to display
						has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
				`	"What sort of delivery?"`
					goto mission
					to display
						has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				`	"Sure, I could deliver it for you."`
					goto yup
					to display
						has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				`	"I wish I could help, but I have urgent matters of my own."`
					decline
					to display
						or
							has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"
							has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: down"
							has "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: mission"
				`	(Ignore her and go about your business.)`
					decline
					to display

> 						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"

Author: I see no obvious clean way to do that. We don't have any "conversation destructor" functionality. I'd need to add separate sections for each termination condition, or use additional variables.

> 						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: ship"

Author: Both missions you found will remove their conversation-specific variables.

			`	"Really? Okay, hold on..." looking down, she fidgets with a datapad, perhaps transferring permission for the cargo mission. "Yeah, okay." She looks back up at last. "Transfer is approved." Her crewman starts offloading the fish, preparing to transfer it to your ship.`
			`	"If the authorities won't let you land, transmit them the serial number from the cargo container, and they'll open a bay for you. Oh, also, this is an illegal mission, so don't get caught, or it'll cost you. Well, it's unlikely anyone out here will care about laws, but I do believe in full disclosure."`
			label "d'ya want the job"
			choice
				`	"I'm not afraid of dodging the cops... where there are none. Give me the cargo, and it'll reach its destination. You have my word."`
					accept
				`	"On second thought, I don't think I want this mission. Illegal fish deliveries are too strange for my tastes."`
					decline
				`	"If I'm just delivering fish, why is it illegal?"`
					to display
						not "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: spicy"
			label "'cause they're spicy"
			action
				set "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal: spicy"

> 			`	"Nothing is wrong with the fish; the other end of the delivery is the problem, so the whole trade arrangement is illegal. There's all sorts of barrels and boxes that come back from <planet>. It's mostly mundane stuff; never any drugs, counterfeits, or weapons. Why the Republic would ban this... I haven't the slightest notion.`

Reviewer 3: Because it's not "humans have found a way to trade with aliens instead of shooting them,"  but, from the Republic's point of view, "the Syndicate is telling us over an extremely fine dinner that this illegitimate world is actively collaborating with some some dangerous group that has been attacking merchants."

> 			`	"Nothing is wrong with the fish; the other end of the delivery is the problem, so the whole trade arrangement is illegal. There's all sorts of barrels and boxes that come back from <planet>. It's mostly mundane stuff; never any drugs, counterfeits, or weapons. Why the Republic would ban this... I haven't the slightest notion.`

Reviewer 13: The republic is widely known for being heavy-handed in terms of regulations. It's entirely possible that, since these particular fish have never been studied and their long-term effects analyzed for effects on people, that they have been deemed illegal. And being a potential threat to the established food providing industry, inspectors and researchers to do that analysis for some reason *always* have sixty other things they need to test first before getting to this. Assuming that anyone's paid the multi-million credit fee to get it onto their task list to begin with. Which no-one may even know is what they should be doing, since the above interests have worked hard to ensure that the inspectors aren't talking to them.

> 			`	"Nothing is wrong with the fish; the other end of the delivery is the problem, so the whole trade arrangement is illegal. There's all sorts of barrels and boxes that come back from <planet>. It's mostly mundane stuff; never any drugs, counterfeits, or weapons. Why the Republic would ban this... I haven't the slightest notion.`

Reviewer 3: That is a much better explanation than mine! Well done.

> 			`	"Nothing is wrong with the fish; the other end of the delivery is the problem, so the whole trade arrangement is illegal. There's all sorts of barrels and boxes that come back from <planet>. It's mostly mundane stuff; never any drugs, counterfeits, or weapons. Why the Republic would ban this... I haven't the slightest notion.`

Reviewer 14: So basically, there are many different groups who have their own reasons to want to restrict trade:
- Paradise worlds don’t want the Republic to support trade with a group that attacks merchants
- Syndicate wants to protect their monopoly 
- Deep doesn’t want to support trade using fish that hasn’t been proven safe
- Free Worlds is a new government that is either fighting a war or just fought one and doesn’t want to lose it all over something as trivial as fish
- Hai have a deal with the Republic, plus they still remember their own war with the Korath
- Something something Remnant lore
- Cap’n Pester is upset because the Korath haven’t purchased a license to play endless sky
etc.

> 			`	"Nothing is wrong with the fish; the other end of the delivery is the problem, so the whole trade arrangement is illegal. There's all sorts of barrels and boxes that come back from <planet>. It's mostly mundane stuff; never any drugs, counterfeits, or weapons. Why the Republic would ban this... I haven't the slightest notion.`

Reviewer 3: Yeah, ideally, the fish shipment would only be illegal in the Syndicate and Republic (which includes Deep and Paradise.)  The Hai getting upset is a stretch and the Free Worlds probably shouldn't care at all, but such nuance will have to wait until we can make government distinctions regarding legality.

			`	"Much of our planet's food comes from waste processing systems that convert sewage into edible materials. They rely heavily on aquaponics using extraterrestrial species. These barrels contain several genetically-engineered organisms that feed on sewage and secrete certain types of proteins. The process produces edible algae-like substances; with spices and 3D printers, it is quite palatable. Still, we prefer to eat real food when we can.`

			label done
			`	"Your payment is <payment>, a bit higher than promised. Thank you for the prompt delivery, Captain <last>!"`
			`	"In the future, you will find more fish delivery jobs on the New Tortuga job board. They will grant you clearance to land on La'ab Bamen, whose job board has lucrative opportunities.`
	on visit
		dialog "You've arrived at <planet>, but you left some of the fish behind. You should take off and wait for your escorts to arrive."

mission "Korath: Assistance Warning"
	assisting
	invisible
	source
		government Korath
	to offer
		has "Korath [F02]: A Fishy Proposition: offered"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`Just after the ship departs, you remember the warning from Iris: openly displaying your association with the Korath will anger half the galaxy. Hopefully that was just hyperbole...`

Author: We must remember that there are still new Endless Sky players. This game mechanic may not be obvious to them, and they certainly wouldn't expect to anger so many factions by assisting one damaged ship once.

			`	Iris had quite a lot of knowledge of the Korath, and spoke of them with admiration. Most curious of all is the rainbow feather on her necklace. It was the exact shape of feathers on the Korath of Far'en Lai, but far more colorful.`
			`	You last saw Iris on <planet>. Perhaps it is time to seek answers.`
				accept

mission "Korath [F06]: The Rainbow Feather"
	landing
	invisible
	source "La'ab Bamen"
	to offer
		has "Korath [F05]: Fishy Reasoning: offered"
	on offer
		fail
		conversation
			`You find Iris in one of the narrow access tunnels of La'ab Bamen, observing the fish behind the glass.`
			`	"I was wondering when you'd seek me out," she says, with a worried look. "You gave those two patrols quite a scare on Far'en Lai. They had never seen a human before, and they found one armed at their jail's lock."`
				goto questions

			label check
			branch compassion

> 				has "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: feather"

Reviewer 8: Can you clean up these conditions as well?

			`As you descend through the magnetosphere, your computer warns you of a build-up of unusual charged particles called muons, which is a bit odd. From your training on hyperspace exit and entrance, you recall that the mean lifetime of a muon is measured in microseconds. Something here must be actively generating them.`
			`	You travel deeper into the atmosphere, approaching what appears to be an inactive volcanic island chain. As usual, your ship's descent causes air currents, but the strange atmosphere turns those currents into a powerful storm. The muons mix with this event, creating catastrophic explosions of electrical discharge.`
			`	Remembering what you've read about extreme atmospheric landings, you reconfigure your shields to act as a plow, pushing through the storm. At first it isn't enough, so you pull upward, hoping the lower atmospheric density will let you escape. Once you're free, you realize you've already reached the exosphere.`

> 			`	A quick analysis by your ship's computer tells you the shield plow technique should get you all the way down to the surface, if you avoid eddies in the magnetosphere. It seems those eddies interact with the nova in an odd manner that produces vast amounts of muons. Your shield was drawing them in and discharging them, creating an intense storm centered on your ship. The plow shape directed the electrical activity aft, letting you move freely.`

Reviewer 3: Not a nova.

```suggestion
			`	A quick analysis by your ship's computer tells you the shield plow technique should get you all the way down to the surface, if you avoid eddies in the magnetosphere. It seems those eddies interact with the carbon star in an odd manner that produces vast amounts of muons. Your shield was drawing them in and discharging them, creating an intense storm centered on your ship. The plow shape directed the electrical activity aft, letting you move freely.`
```

			`	Certainly, a second landing attempt will get you through the atmosphere. Next, you'll have to scout for a safe place to land on this world of water and storms.`
				launch

			label "second attempt"
			scene scene/volcanic-eruption-at-night
			action

> 				log "Was able to pass through the atmosphere of Rabasot Pa'ah despite the unusual atmospheric event. A volcanic eruption nearly hit the ship, perhaps caused by landing in the wrong area. There is a large island - or small continent - that looks suitable for landing. Another landing attempt should succeed."
> 			`In this trip, your ship's descent stirred up awe-inspiring storm clouds, but traveling through them was easy. Your shield plow technique took you down to the lower troposphere, where the storms cleared enough for you to see. The original island chain was too far away, so you set course for a larger island nearby.`
> 			`	Aiming for a hard-looking piece of ground, you touch down. As this planet has twice Earth's gravity, you extend your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface. Donning a space suit for safety's sake, you walk out to see nature taking control once again: the massive volcano in front of you starts to erupt.`
> 			`	After a dash to the cockpit, still in your suit, you take off, satisfied that you've reached the surface - albeit in the worst possible spot. A third attempt will certainly succeed, as you saw a small continent with no apparent volcanic activity and a pleasant-looking bay.`

Reviewer 3: Making this planet sound a little worse.

```suggestion
				log "Was able to pass through the atmosphere of Rabasot Pa'ah despite the unusual atmospheric event. A volcanic eruption nearly hit the ship, perhaps caused by landing in the wrong area. There is a large island that might be suitable for landing. Another attempt could succeed."
			`In this trip, your ship's descent stirred up awe-inspiring storm clouds, but traveling through them was easy. Your shield plow technique took you down to the lower troposphere, where the storms cleared enough for you to see. The original island chain was too far away, so you set course for another one nearby.`
			`	Aiming for the hardest-looking piece of ground your sensors can find, you touch down. As this planet has twice Earth's gravity, you extend your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface. Donning a space suit for safety's sake, you walk out to see nature taking control once again: the massive volcano in front of you starts to erupt.`
			`	After a dash to the cockpit, still in your suit, you take off, satisfied that you've reached the surface - albeit in the worst possible spot. A third attempt will certainly succeed, as you see a larger island with no apparent volcanic activity and a pleasant-looking bay.`
```

				launch

			label "third attempt"
			scene scene/blue-whale
			action
				set "landed on Rabasot Pa'ah"
				log "Discovered a creature in a bay on the ocean world of Rabasot Pa'ah with the front half of a whale and the back half of a giant squid. They seem out-of-place, since the planet is almost devoid of macroscopic lifeforms. Perhaps someone is shipping them to the planet?"
			`On your third attempt, you dodge most of the storms by flying into the atmosphere at an odd angle that keeps you in stable air nearly the whole way. After a long flight through safe atmosphere, you finally reach the bay and land on a durable mesa overlooking it. Extending your ship's artificial gravity field to the surface, you don your suit and walk out. It quickly becomes clear the mesa is artificial: it's a constructed landing pad for a ship of vast scale.`

> 			`	This is the perfect location for life, so it's no surprise there are small plants and a few fish in the water. The seas are calmer here than the rest of the planet, and an unusual formation in the ionosphere protects this spot from the worst rays of the nova. The dominant land-based lifeform seems to be toothed worms about the size of your arm.`

Reviewer 3: Not a nova

```suggestion
			`	This is the perfect location for life, so it's no surprise there are small plants and a few fish in the water. The seas are calmer here than the rest of the planet, and an unusual formation in the ionosphere protects this spot from the worst rays of the carbon star. The dominant land-based lifeform seems to be toothed worms about the size of your arm.`
```

				to display
					has "First Contact: Korath Exiles: agreed to bring food"
				goto check
			`	"Strangers landing on Far'en Lai is dangerous to the Korath, Captain <last>. If you make the wrong move, it can lead to their destruction. I'm glad you had the good sense not to do any real harm, but please stay away in the future.`
				goto check

			label know
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: know"
			`	"We are allies of the Korath. Naturally, if a human somehow obtains a jump drive and wanders into Korath space, they ask us about it. Landing on Far'en Lai with a weapon does terrible harm. They let you go because it is a planet of peace."`
				goto check

			label feather
			action
				set "Korath [F05]: The Rainbow Feather: feather"
			`	She removes her necklace and cups the rainbow feather tenderly in her hands. "This was a gift from a Korath woman who is my... close friend. Korath keep memories in their skin and pass knowledge by eating another's memories. The stronger the memory, the more colorful the feathers. This feather has the memories and emotions that she identifies with me.`

> 			`	"If she dies in a raid, and another Korath eats this, I'll have her back, in a way. Another Korath that feels for me as she does, and remembers our times together. All Korath know the consequence of a rainbow feather. This is how they pass all knowledge; not through schooling, but through skin.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	"If she dies in a raid, and another Korath eats this, I'll have her back, in a way. Another Korath that feels for me as she does, and remembers our times together. All Korath know the consequence of a rainbow feather. This is how they pass knowledge; not only through schooling, but through skin.`
```

			`	"Think about that a moment. Years of memories flow in as if they were yesterday. Powerful emotions overwhelm you, and you don't understand why, because they aren't your own. You love someone who doesn't love you back because they never met you. Knowledge you couldn't comprehend before is intuitive, but it came at a high price. You'd lose all sense of time and self - unimaginable psychological pain to us is simply a fact of life to a Korath.`

> 			`	"That, Captain, is the very core of their being. They never developed diplomacy because they didn't need it: a few feathers or the skin of the dead will end a conflict. That is, unless their terrible weapons annihilate the corpses, or if the enemies aren't Korath at all. We do what we can to mediate their troubles with humans, but we aren't always around."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			`	"That, Captain, is the very core of their being. They never developed diplomacy because they didn't need it: a few feathers or the skin of the dead may end a conflict. That is, unless their terrible weapons annihilate the corpses, or if the enemies aren't Korath at all. We do what we can to mediate their troubles with humans, but we aren't always around."`
```

mission "Korath [F00]: A Fishy Planet"
	landing
	source "New Tortuga"
	destination "Stormhold"
	on offer
		conversation
			`Flying through the atmosphere of New Tortuga, you pass over a typhoon, overfly a tsunami, and take a short detour around a supercell thunderstorm. After a half hour of delicate flying, you approach doors more than a hundred meters tall. As they open, you can see they are ten meters thick, made of an unfamiliar brown material. Two layers of shields shut down in anticipation of your entry, each strong enough to stop a Navy Carrier. To the left and right, there are turrets with heat signatures higher than a Breeder Reactor. Whoever built this place values their safety... and has the funds and technology to secure it.`
			`	Spaceport authorities direct you to bay 23X-5. As you run through your post-flight check, an odd ship comes in behind you and hastily settles down onto the next pad. It resembles an old-fashioned jet aircraft, whose four jet engines have been replaced with small ion engines. From the gold pipes on the tail, it appears to have a hyperdrive built into the hull. You make a mental note to ask about it when its captain is available.`
				decline

> mission "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal"

Reviewer 10: Maybe give this mission `priority` so that it will always offer first, instead of a culture conversation or the like?

Reviewer 3: Alas, no, the data parser gets mad

> Warning: "priority" tag has no effect on "landing" missions:

Which is a pity, because it's kind of annoying to have your various passenger and cargo missions unload before the story tells you that you're landing.  Having priority over those should be a feature.

Reviewer 10: But [F01] isn't `landing`?

Reviewer 3: The text you quoted is from F00, not F01.

Reviewer 10: I mean, couldn't you do this:
```suggestion
mission "Korath [F01]: A Fishy Deal"
	priority
```
